An object moving through a medium collides with the particles that compose the medium and slows down as a result. Depending on the parameters of the problem, the drag force may have different dependence on the velocity of the object $ u $. Let $ \rho $ be the mass density of the medium and $ c $ be its speed of sound. The case where the drag force is proportional to $ \rho c u $ is called Epstein drag, and when the case where the drag force is proportional to $ \rho u^2 $ is called Stokes or aerodynamic drag. If the object is highly supersonic $ u \gg c $ then the drag is quadratic in $ u $ because increasing the object's velocity has two effects: first, it increases the momentum of each incident particle, and second, it increases the rate at which particles are coming in (from the object's perspective). In the highly subsonic case ($ c \gg u $) the drag regime depend on the size of the object. If the object is much smaller than the mean free path then it would feel Epstein drag. For different values of $ u $ the object keeps seeing incident particles moving at a velocity close to $ c $, but the rate at which the object encounters particles coming from the forward direction is slightly heigher (by a factor of $ u/c $) from the rate at which particles are coming in from behind. If the size of the object is much larger than the mean free path, then it will experience Stokes drag. The difference, in comparison to the previous case is that in the previous case the object mostly collides with new particles (i.e. particles the object has never encountered before) while in this case most of the collisions are repeated. Therefore, close the object, the particles will have a thermal contribution to the incident velocity which will cancel out due to symmetry, and a non isotropic component of order $ u $ which will contribute to the drag.