The Larmor formula gives the power of the electromagnetic radiation emitted by an accelerated charge.

A charge $ e $, with acceleration $ a $ will emit a total power of
$ P = \frac{2}{3} \frac{e^2 a^2}{c^3} $

A common variant of this formula is for the case of a time-varying dipole moment $ d $, resulting in a dipole radiation with power
$ P = \frac{2}{3} \frac{(\ddot{d})^2}{c^3} $

== Derivation ==
We follow a simple toy-model for obtaining the power generated by an accelerating charge.
Consider a charge $e$ moving at a constant non-relativistic velocity $ v_0 $, $ v_0 \ll c$. The charge is decelerated over a short time $ dt $, such that $ a = v_0/dt $ is its uniform deceleration.

We consider the shape of the electric field lines at time $ t \ll dt $. The field lines prior to the deceleration phase were emanating radially from the charge, pointing to its position. Outside a sphere of radius $ R = c t $, the field lines are still pointing to the pre-deceleration position of the charge. Inside this causality sphere, information about the deceleration has propagated, and the field lines point at the new position of the halted charge.

Since the field lines must connect smoothly, they develop a tangential component over a shell of width $ c \, dt $. At this volume, the electric field is not curl-free, and hence radiation is generated.

Concentrating at field lines forming an angle $ \theta $ with the line along which the charge moves, we see that the tangential component $ E_\theta $ at the transition shell is related to the radial component $ E_r $ by
$ \frac{E_\theta}{E_r} = \frac{ v t \sin{\theta} }{c \, dt } $

Since the radial electric field is simply $ E_r = e / R^2 $, the tangential component is given by
$ E_\theta = \frac{e}{c^2} \frac{a \sin{\theta}}{R} $

As we eventually average over all solid angles, we omit $ \sin{\theta} $ in what follows. We notice that the energy density of this shell is proportional to $ 1/R^2 $, and hence the total energy in the shell does not depend on its radius. The power of the emitted radiation is given by

$ P \approx  |E_\theta|^2 R^2 c = \frac{ e^2 a^2 }{c^3} $
which up to a numerical factor, is the Larmor formula for the power emitted by an accelerated charge.